[DOCS] CCR disaster recovery (#91491)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ccr/uni-directional-disaster-recovery.asciidoc

be redirected to `clusterB`, this is controlled by the clients ({ls}, {beats},
{agents}, etc). 
* Failback - When `clusterA` is back online, it assumes the role of a follower
and replicates the leader indices from `clusterB`.

image::images/ccr-uni-directional-disaster-recovery.png[Uni-directional cross cluster replication failover and failback]

NOTE: {ccr-cap} provides functionality to replicate user-generated indices only.
{ccr-cap} isn't designed for replicating system-generated indices or snapshot
settings, and can't replicate {ilm-init} or {slm-init} policies across clusters.
Learn more in {ccr} <<ccr-limitations,limitations>>.

==== Prerequisites
Before completing this tutorial,
<<ccr-getting-started-tutorial,set up cross-cluster replication>> to connect two 
clusters and configure a follower index. 

In this tutorial, `kibana_sample_data_ecommerce` is replicated from `clusterA` to `clusterB`.

[source,console]
----
### On clusterB ###
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster": {
      "remote": {
        "clusterA": {
          "mode": "proxy",
          "skip_unavailable": "true",

>           "server_name": "clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",
>           "proxy_socket_connections": "18",
>           "proxy_address": "clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400"

Author: ```suggestion
          "server_name": "clustera.es.region-a.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",
          "proxy_socket_connections": "18",
          "proxy_address": "clustera.es.region-a.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400"
```

        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:host]

> // TEST[s/"server_name": "clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",//]
> // TEST[s/"proxy_socket_connections": 18,//]
> // TEST[s/clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400/\${transport_host}/]

Author: ```suggestion
// TEST[s/"server_name": "clustera.es.region-a.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",//]
// TEST[s/"proxy_socket_connections": 18,//]
// TEST[s/clustera.es.region-a.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400/\${transport_host}/]
```

// TEST[s/clusterA/remote_cluster/]

[source,console]
----
### On clusterB ###

> PUT /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1

Reviewer: Should we avoid the `_copy` suffix? I think the rest of the tutorial is easier without it. Otherwise we need some aliasing I think.

> PUT /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1

Author: ```suggestion
PUT /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1
```

Thanks, I added this to indicate it's a copy from the cluster A. But I am also happy to remove it.

{
  "remote_cluster": "clusterA",
  "leader_index": "kibana_sample_data_ecommerce"
}
----
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/clusterA/remote_cluster/]

IMPORTANT: Writes (such as ingestion or updates) should occur only on the leader
index. Follower indices are read-only and will reject any writes.

==== Failover when `clusterA` is down

. Promote the follower indices in `clusterB` into regular indices so 
that they accept writes. This can be achieved by:
* First, pause indexing following for the follower index.
* Next, close the follower index.
* Unfollow the leader index.
* Finally, open the follower index (which at this point is a regular index).

+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterB ###

> POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/pause_follow
> POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_close           
> POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/unfollow    
> POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_open

Author: ```suggestion
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_ccr/pause_follow
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_close           
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_ccr/unfollow    
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_open
```

----
// TEST[continued]

. On the client side ({ls}, {beats}, {agent}), manually re-enable ingestion of
`kibana_sample_data_ecommerce` and redirect traffic to the `clusterB`. You should
also redirect all search traffic to the `clusterB` cluster during
this time. You can simulate this by ingesting documents into this index. You should
notice this index is now writable.
+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterB ###

> POST kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_doc/

Author: ```suggestion
POST kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_doc/
```

{
  "user": "kimchy"
}
----
// TEST[continued]

==== Failback when `clusterA` comes back

When `clusterA` comes back, `clusterB` becomes the new leader and `clusterA` becomes the follower. 

. Set up remote cluster `clusterB` on `clusterA`.
+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterA ###
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster": {
      "remote": {
        "clusterB": {
          "mode": "proxy",
          "skip_unavailable": "true",

>           "server_name": "clusterb.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",
>           "proxy_socket_connections": "18",
>           "proxy_address": "clusterb.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400"

Author: ```suggestion
          "server_name": "clusterb.es.region-b.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",
          "proxy_socket_connections": "18",
          "proxy_address": "clusterb.es.region-b.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400"
```

        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:host]

> // TEST[s/"server_name": "clusterb.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",//]
> // TEST[s/"proxy_socket_connections": 18,//]
> // TEST[s/clusterb.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400/\${transport_host}/]

Author: ```suggestion
// TEST[s/"server_name": "clusterb.es.region-b.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",//]
// TEST[s/"proxy_socket_connections": 18,//]
// TEST[s/clusterb.es.region-b.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400/\${transport_host}/]
```

// TEST[s/clusterB/remote_cluster/]

. Existing data needs to be discarded before you can turn any index into a
follower. Ensure the most up-to-date data is available on `clusterB` prior to
deleting any indices on `clusterA`.  
+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterA ###
DELETE kibana_sample_data_ecommerce
----
// TEST[skip:need dual cluster setup]

. Create a follower index on `clusterA`, now following the leader index in
`clusterB`.  
+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterA ###
PUT /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1
{ 
  "remote_cluster": "clusterB", 

>   "leader_index": "kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy" 

Author: ```suggestion
  "leader_index": "kibana_sample_data_ecommerce" 
```

}
----
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/clusterB/remote_cluster/]

. The index on the follower cluster now contains the updated documents.
+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterA ###
GET kibana_sample_data_ecommerce/_search?q=kimchy
----

> // TEST[continued]

Author: ```suggestion
// TEST[continued]
+ TIP: If a soft delete is merged away before it can be replicated to a follower the following process will fail due to incomplete history on the leader, see <<ccr-index-soft-deletes-retention-period, index.soft_deletes.retention_lease.period>> for more details.
```

[role="xpack"]
[[ccr-disaster-recovery-uni-directional-tutorial]]
=== Tutorial: Disaster recovery based on uni-directional {ccr}
++++
<titleabbrev>Uni-directional disaster recovery</titleabbrev>
++++

////
[source,console]
----
PUT kibana_sample_data_ecommerce
----
// TESTSETUP 

[source,console]
----
DELETE kibana_sample_data_ecommerce
----
// TEARDOWN
////

Learn how to failover and failback between two clusters based on
uni-directional {ccr}. You can also visit <<ccr-disaster-recovery-bi-directional-tutorial,ccr bi-directional tutorial>> to set up replicating data streams that automatically failover and failback without human
intervention.

* Setting up uni-directional {ccr} replicated from `clusterA`
to `clusterB`.
* Failover. If `clusterA` goes offline, `clusterB` needs to "promote" follower
indices to regular indices to allow write operations. All ingestion will need to

> be redirected to `clusterB`, this is controlled by the clients (Logstash, Beats,
> Agents, etc). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be redirected to `clusterB`, this is controlled by the clients ({ls}, {beats},
{agents}, etc). 
```

{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster": {
      "remote": {
        "clusterA": {
          "mode": "proxy",
          "skip_unavailable": "true",
          "server_name": "clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",
          "proxy_socket_connections": "18",
          "proxy_address": "clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:host]
// TEST[s/"server_name": "clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com",//]
// TEST[s/"proxy_socket_connections": 18,//]
// TEST[s/clustera.es.australia-southeast1.gcp.elastic-cloud.com:9400/\${transport_host}/]
// TEST[s/clusterA/remote_cluster/]

+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterB ###
PUT /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1
{
  "remote_cluster": "clusterA",
  "leader_index": "kibana_sample_data_ecommerce"
}
----
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/clusterA/remote_cluster/]

IMPORTANT: Writes (such as ingestion or updates) should occur only on the leader
index. Follower indices are read-only and will reject any writes.

==== Failover when `clusterA` is down

. Promote the follower indices in `clusterB` into regular indices so 

> that it will be accepting writes. This can be achieved by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that they accept writes. This can be achieved by:
```

* Pauses indexing following for the follower index.
* Closes the follower index.
* Unfollows the leader index.
* Opens the follower index (which at this point is a regular index).

+
[source,console]
----
### On clusterB ###
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/pause_follow
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_close           
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_ccr/unfollow    
POST /kibana_sample_data_ecommerce_copy/_open
----
// TEST[continued]

. On the Client (logstash, beats, agent) side, manually re-enable ingestion of
`kibana_sample_data_ecommerce` and redirect traffic to the `clusterB`. You should
also redirect all search traffic to the `clusterB` cluster during

> this time. We can simulate this by ingesting documents into this index. You should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this time. You can simulate this by ingesting documents into this index. You should
```
